---
source: StoryWeaver
level: 3
grade: 3
language: English
licence: CC-BY 4.0
story_id: 434292
title: "Heela's Dream"
author: "Maryam Kakar"
url: https://storyweaver.org.in/en/stories/434292-heela-s-dream
---

# Heela's Dream

When it rains, the sky becomes clear, the clouds become white, and the earth becomes humid. How pleasant is this moment! I was sitting on my bed and thinking about this when my mother opened the door and entered my room. “Heela, my girl, why aren’t you ready yet? Get up! You are going to get late for school.” I wondered aloud, “I wish there was no school so that everyone would be free and do whatever they wished to do!” After many denials and struggles with myself for not going to school, I finally got ready. I had my breakfast and set off for school.

My house was a 10 minutes walk from my school. On the way, I played with the dogs running and the butterflies on the flowers in the lanes of the street. I finally reached the school.

When I entered my class, the teacher had already started with lessons. “Heela, why are you late my dear?”&nbsp; “ Ustad jan ,* &nbsp;my house is far from the school, that is why I am late.”&nbsp; My teacher replied, “I will pardon you today, but do not come late next time.”&nbsp; I nodded and went to my seat. The Dari period ended and it was time for the Math period.&nbsp; Our Math teacher’s name was Najeeba.&nbsp; My classmates and I were running all over the classroom. We were too busy to notice her coming. She furiously asked us not to run in the classroom again! There was pin-drop silence. While checking the homework notebooks of the class she said, “Heela, bring me your Math notebook.” “ Ustad jan,&nbsp; I forgot my notebook at home.” She said, “Ok, don’t forget to bring it tomorrow.” “Ok, Ma’am.” I took a deep breath because I had not completed my homework. How I hated it…. Ugghhh!&nbsp; Ustad jan&nbsp; - Teacher

When I came back from school, I was so angry I thought to myself, “I wish there was no school.” I had my lunch with mom, cleaned the destarkhan* and then I went to my room and started playing a game on my computer when my mother entered my room and asked, “Heela my girl, how was your day at school?” “It was good, madar jan *.” “Don’t you have homework to do baby?” “Nope, madar jan , our Math teacher didn’t come today,” I lied. “Ok baby, but before playing games, make sure you prepare for studies tomorrow.” “Ok m adar jan ,” I said obediently. When my mother left the room, I took a break and drew 'a teacher teaching her students' for my Dari teacher. I continued playing games. Destarkhan -&nbsp; a traditional Afghan food serving cloth Madar jan - Mother

I didn’t realise that it was already late evening and it was time for my father to come home from work. I quickly started studying. I heard my father telling my mother, “When I entered the room and saw that Heela was studying, I became happy and pleased that my daughter is studying, so I gave her a chocolate.”

It was time for dinner, we all were sitting around the destarkhan eating our dinner. Father was listening to the news on the T.V.&nbsp; The newsreader said that a new virus had hit China named&nbsp; COVID-19 or the Coronavirus. All the schools, universities, offices were shut. The virus being very contagious, the cities had to put a curfew. “Several people died due to the virus,” the newsreader said. On hearing the news, I wondered, “What if this virus hits our country. Everywhere will be closed and so will my school and I wouldn’t have to go to school anymore. What fun! I will have all the time for myself. I will play all day with friends and play computer games all evening.” I wished the virus would spread in our country sooner, so that I would not have to go to school anymore. Laying on my bed, I was praying about this until I went to sleep.

I was in a deep sleep when I woke up to my mother’s voice telling me, "You are not a kid anymore, you are in class 5th. Get up baby!" “Uffff …ok ﻿madar jan !” I grunted. As usual I played with the street dogs, and ran after the butterflies until I reached my school. And as usual I was late. “Heela, you are late again!” “Sorry ﻿ustad jan ,” I said, making a puppy face. “It's alright! But come on time from tomorrow.”

I gave her the drawing that I did for her. Then she pleased me with a kiss on my cheek. The time passed until it was time for our Math teacher Najeeba’s period. Teacher Najeeba said, “Heela, bring me your math homework now.” I looked inside my school bag.&nbsp; “ ﻿Ustad jan I don’t have my notebook. I swear I kept it inside my bag, but it's not here now.” Teacher Najeeba got angry, she spoke furiously, “You are making excuses every day. Ask your mother to meet me tomorrow at school.”

The rest of the day was uneventful. It was time to go home. I delightedly grabbed my bag and off I went towards home when suddenly I remembered Teacher Najeeba’s order for asking mother to meet her tomorrow.&nbsp; I was worried and was thinking of ways to ask my mother to meet my teacher the next day. When I reached home, mom asked me, “How was your day, Heela?” I thought again about Teacher Najeeba’s order and wondered how I should tell my mother about it. I knew she would be disappointed and angry. I answered quickly, “It was great ﻿madar jan . You know ﻿madar jan , the drawing that I did for my Dari teacher, she loved it and pleased me with a kiss on my cheek.” “Excellent, my intelligent girl.”

As usual we all sat for dinner after my father came from work and as usual he was listening to the news to get information about the situation. We all were stunned when we heard from the newsreader that 45 people had died due to the Coronavirus. There was silence for about 30 seconds. It seemed like my parents were speechless. Then mom told me, “Go my dear and sleep, you have school tomorrow.”

I went to sleep, and woke up to the news that the entire country was shut, which meant my school was also closed!&nbsp; I was so happy that I didn't need to go to school! Yeah! I jumped with joy! A number of thoughts and ideas came to my mind. I will play computer games, play with my dolls and toys, go to the park and play with my friends. Wow... my joy had no end!

A month passed. Afghanistan and many other countries were in lockdown. No one was allowed to step out of their homes. So one of my fun ideas of going to the park and playing with my friends went down the drain!&nbsp; But I wanted to go to the park. I was bored of playing all day at home and without my friends. I asked my mother, “ Madar jan , I want to go to the park!” “Dear daughter, the situation is very bad. It is announced in the news that no one should step out of their houses.” “Please madar jan , I will study all day tomorrow but today I want to go to the park. Call my friend Tuba’s mom. Ask them to come to the park. I want to play with Tuba.” Mother thought maybe going to the park might not be restricted. So she gave it a try and called Tuba’s mom, Rasa Gul Aunt. “The situation is very bad and the virus is so dangerous. So I cannot come to the park. I cannot step out of my home.”

I still insisted and said, “Please mom, I will wear a mask and sanitize my hands.” (I watched on TV being that this was announced as a way to prevent the virus.) I still insisted and repeated the warnings I had seen on TV the previous morning. “Please, mom? I will wear a mask and sanitize my hands.” I still insisted and said, “Please ﻿madar jan , I will wear a mask and sanitize my hands.” (I watched on TV being that this was announced as a way to prevent the virus.) I still insisted and repeated the warnings I had seen on TV the previous morning. “Please, ﻿madar jan ? I will wear a mask and sanitize my hands.”

So my mom took me to the park. We reached the park and to my disappointment, there was no one in the park. All the swings were empty without any children there. “See Heela jan , I told you, everything is closed.”

Saddened and tired, we came back home. Like this 6 months passed and I was bored of playing games and playing all by myself. I really missed my school and those days when my friends and I were playing together, enjoying being together, and when none of us were wearing masks. It was not clear when the city would reopen. Everyone would say, maybe in 6 months, but because the spread of the Coronavirus was on the rise, the lockdown continued. By this time the schools and offices had got another way of functioning. They started work and classes online. We all had to study and attend classes by sitting at home, taking classes online. Whoever had computers would use computers for their classes. Mobile smart phones were another way to attend the classes.&nbsp; Many had mobile phones at home, many did not.

The first hour of my first day of online school was good.&nbsp; For the next hour, we had Math.&nbsp; After the end of class, our teacher asked me to send her pictures of my homework. I said, “fine.” The next day, I joined the class, I muted my mic. Then I also turned off my video (so that no one could see me.)&nbsp; I started to play computer games. “Wow, online classes are fun,” I thought to myself. I repeated this trick every day. I loved online classes. My dad was also at home all day. He was working from home on his laptop. He would come to my room to meet me during his break. Whenever he would enter, I would turn off my online game and act like I was attending my classes.

A year of quarantine passed this way. It was time for examinations. Due to the pandemic, our exams were also conducted online, because the schools and offices were shut to avoid the spread of the virus. Taking online examinations from home was easy. I did not have to learn my lessons. I would copy all the answers for the exam sheet from the book. I passed my class 5 exams and was promoted to class 6. “I am very smart,” I thought to myself.

My father was happy that I was promoted to class 6. He bought me a gift. I was so excited about what it might be. Maybe a new doll or some other toy. He gave it to me and said, “Congratulations my daughter! I am so proud of my beautiful and intelligent daughter.” I opened the package with much excitement. My joy of excitement vanished when I saw the gift was a book! Not a doll, nor a toy or any new game CD, but a book! I was sad. Looking at my sad face my father said, “Dear daughter, now you have grown up. Now your toy is a book. We will read the book together tonight.”

After dinner, it was time to go to bed. My father, true to his words, came to my room and asked for the book he gifted me. The name of the book was “Sheereen’s Dream.” My father read, “Sheereen loved to go to school but her family did not want her to go to school. She wished to become a doctor but her parents would not send her to school to study. Her parents believed that girls do not need education.” My father read the entire book. It was about a little girl who wanted to study and become a doctor. When the story came to an end, I asked my father, “Daddy, why did Sheereen’s parents not let her study?” My father said, “My darling, education is the right of both girls and boys. Sheereen’s parents did not know the value of education, which is not correct.” After dinner, it was time to go to bed. My father, true to his words, came to my room and asked for the book he gifted me.&nbsp; The name of the book was “Sheereen’s Dream.” My father read, “Sheereen loved to go to school but her family did not want her to go to school. She wished to become a doctor but her parents would not send her to school to study.&nbsp; Her parents believed that girls do not need education.” My father read the entire book. It was about a little girl who wanted to study and become a doctor. When the story came to an end, I asked my father, “ Padar jan ,* why did Sheereen’s parents not let her study?” My father said, “My darling, education is the right of both girls and boys. Sheereen’s parents did not know the value of education, which is not correct.” Padar jan&nbsp; - Father

After reading the story, I lay awake thinking till late at night. I thought and realized how lucky I am to have parents who let me go to school and get educated. That night, I made a promise to myself that I would study well so that in the future I could serve and help other people. The next morning my mother came to wake me up. But I was already awake and doing my Math homework. After reading the story, I lay awake thinking till late at night.&nbsp; I thought and realized how lucky I am to have parents who let me go to school and get educated.&nbsp; That night, I made a promise to myself that I would study well so that in the future I could serve and help other people. The next morning my mother came to wake me up.&nbsp; But I was already awake and doing my Math homework.

About the Author Maryam Kakar, the author and illustrator of the story, is a leader at The Community Library Project. Originally from Afghanistan, she wrote this story recollecting her experiences during the Covid 19 pandemic and in extension, the school lockdowns which were a result of it. Here is what she had to say about the story. “In Afghanistan there’s only one day off, and that is Jummah (Friday). When I lived there, my one ambition was to have a long holiday for about one month or two months! To complete all my arts and travel somewhere else....I was in India when the pandemic started. I got my wish for a long holiday but I was stuck at home. The thing that motivated me to write this book was the experience of the quarantine and online classes."
