---
source: StoryWeaver
level: 3
grade: 3
language: English
licence: CC-BY 4.0
story_id: 294256
title: "I'm Not Scared"
author: "Timira Gupta"
url: https://storyweaver.org.in/en/stories/294256-i-m-not-scared
---

# I'm Not Scared

Setting: The play takes place primarily in two locations. Outside the school gate where Dadaji picks up Archana (downstage) and inside the subway, a place that transforms into an enchanted garden, a circus and even a royal ball (upstage, preferably on a raised platform). Centrestage : Park bench placed centrestage (only during the park scenes) Downstage left &amp; right : Narrators The backdrop of the set should resemble the inside of a subway crossing. Characters with Dialogues : 1) Champaklal/Dadaji 2) Archana 3) Two narrators for every scene 4) Pushpa ben 5) Savita ji 6) Mr Iyer 7) Sharma ji Archana Champaklal/ Dadaji Pushpa ben Mr Iyer Savita ji Sharma ji

﻿ Scene 1 S et: A park bench to be placed centrestage. One narrator on left downstage and the other on right downstage. No lights on stage, only on narrators. Narrator 1: This is the story of little Archana. Archana loved school. Every afternoon, her Dadaji would come to pick her up and walk her home. &nbsp; Narrator 2: The walk was beautiful, with trees shading the narrow lanes, vendors selling all kinds of things, and Archana’s favourite ice-creamwala waiting for her. Narrator 1: But there, beyond the ice-creamwala, stood the entrance to a place that Archana was very afraid of: the subway crossing.

Narrator 2: Archana thought monsters lived there . Narrator 1: Every day her Dadaji had to pick her up in his arms, while she shut her eyes tight, and quickly carry her through the subway. Narrator 2: Finally, her Dadaji decided to ask for help. (Lights on centre stage. A group of senior citizens are engaged in laughter exercises.) All: Ha-ha! He-he! Ho-ho-ho! Champaklal/Dadaji: (entering from the left wing) Hullo! Pushpa ben: Good morning, Champakbhai! All others: &nbsp; Good morning! Sharma ji: Aaj late kyun? Tabyat-paani sab theek?&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; [So late! All OK?] Savita ji: Kaay zhaala? Bassa bassa…&nbsp; ( gestures to everyone to sit down on the benches. All settle down. ) Ata saang, kaay zhaala? [What happened? Sit, sit and tell us, what happened?]

Cha mpaklal : Main roz Archana ko lene school jata hoon na. Aur woh subway cross karna padta hai. Archana ko subway se itna dar lagta hai. Ufff! Roz, rona-dhona! Bechari. Kya karu, kuch samajh mein nahi ata. [I pick up Archana from school every day and we have to cross the subway to get home. Archana is terrified of the subway. Poor girl! She cries every day. I just don’t know what to do.] All : Arrre re re! Hey Bhagwaan! Aiyo! [Oh dear! Oh lord! Hmmm.] Mr Iyer : Something must be done! We must all put our minds together to solve Mr Champaklal’s problem. ( Pushpa ben takes out a packet of sev/fried snack. ) Pushpa ben : Isspechul gaatiya che. Khaao aane socho…socho aane khao! [Here’s some special gaatiya. Eat while thinking… think while eating!] Sharma ji : Arre humein bhi toh gaatiya pass karo. Kuch idea nahi sooj raha hai. [Please pass some of that gaatiya here as well. Can’t think without it.] Savita ji : Nako nako! Sharma ji la cholesterol aahe! (doesn’t pass the packet to him. Sharma ji reacts.) [No no! Mr Sharma’s cholesterol levels are very high!] Pushpa ben : Maari pautrine kharaab sapne maalshe. [My grandchild also used to get bad dreams.] So my daughter told her bedtime stories. Mr Iyer : Oh, that’s a very good idea! You can tell her stories of clowns and jugglers. Savita ji : Ho! Raja aani rani chya pan goshti saangu shaktah. [You can also narrate stories of kings and queens.] Champaklal : Saras idea chhe! Thank you haan, everyone. Mai kal try karke WhatsApp pe update bhejta hu! [What great ideas! Thank you, everyone. I’m going to try this out tomorrow and update you all on our WhatsApp group!] (Lights fade out.)

Scene 2 Location: In front of the school. One narrator on left downstage and the other on right downstage. No lights on stage, only on narrators. Narrator 1:&nbsp; The next day arrived and Archana was waiting for Dadaji to pick her up from school. Narrator 2: &nbsp; Archana was thinking of different excuses to skip walking home and take a taxi instead. But little did&nbsp; she know that her Dadaji had a grand plan in store for her! Archana: Can we please not cross the subway today? The monsters will definitely kidnap us. Dadaji: But there is a big surprise for you in the subway today. Archana: A surprise? What surprise? It is such a scary place.

Dadaji: While coming here, I found this flower on the road and picked it up. Out of the flower, came a little pixie! Archana: A pixie?! REALLY? Where is she now? Dadaji: She was getting late so she ran away. Before going, she said there is a pixie party in the subway today. Archana: A pixie party??? WOWWW! Can we go, &nbsp; pleaaaaase? Dadaji: But you are scared of the subway. You will cry. Archana: No, no, let’s go. Please, please. I won’t cry. I promise. Dadaji: So the rule is that you have to wear the flower in your hair and close your eyes, only then can you see the party. Archana: I’m ready, Dadaji. Let’s go!

( Archana wears the flower in her hair and closes her eyes. Dadaji holds her hand and walks her towards the subway. Music Track 1 in the background. Lights fade out from upstage and fade in on the subway. )

Narrator 1: &nbsp; As Archana walked towards the subway with her eyes tightly closed, Dadaji began telling her all about the pixies and their big, beautiful flowers. Narrator 2: &nbsp; With Dadaji’s detailed description, Archana could actually see the pixie party behind her closed eyes! ( During this narration, giant-sized flowers are placed downstage as there is no light here. The focus is on Dadaji and Archana who are standing on the raised subway. Light slowly fades in. )

Archana: Tell me Dadaji, what is all around? Dadaji: There are giant flowers everywhere. Purple, orange, yellow… Pixies and elves are dancing all around. Archana: Wow! Dadaji: Can you see them, Archana? Archana: Yes, yes, I can see everything, Dadaji. ( Music Track 2 begins to play and, as the light fades in, pixies and elves dance their way onto stage. They twirl around the flowers, ballet-style, while Archana and Dadaji watch and join in. Music fades, dancers exit along with Dadaji and Archana. )

Scene 3 Location: In front of the school followed by the circus scene in the subway. One narrator on left downstage and the other on right downstage. No lights on stage, only on narrators. Narrator 1: The pixies and elves finished their little party, and Archana crossed the subway quite happily. The plan had worked! Narrator 2: &nbsp; But now he had to think of another plan. Before he knew it, the next day arrived, and Archana was waiting for Dadaji after school. Archana: Dadaji, Dadaji, did you meet the pixie today? Is there another party? Dadaji: I looked inside every flower fallen on the road, but did not see her anywhere. Archana: Oh no, then we should not take the subway. Those monsters will surely kidnap us today.

Dadaji: OK, then I will throw away this red nose the clown gave me. Archana: A real clown nose! (She takes the nose from Dadaji.) You met a clown? Dadaji: He said only those who wear this nose and close their eyes can see the circus. Archana: Can we please go to the circus, Dadaji? I’m sure the monsters will not bother us if there is a circus playing down there. Dadaji: OK. You know the rule. Wear the nose and close your eyes. Archana: (Wears the nose) I’m ready, Dadaji. Let’s go! Dadaji: OK, no problem, but I heard there’s a circus in the subway today. Archana: A CIR CUS? In the subway? Tch! I don’t believe you.

( Archana and Dadaji walk towards the subway. Music Track 1 in the background. Lights fade out from upstage and fade in on the subway. )

Narrator 1: &nbsp;So once again, Dadaji and Archana carefully stepped down into the subway. Narrator 2: And with Dadaji’s glorious description of this crazy circus, Archana saw exactly that… All behind her closed eyes! ( During this narration, a Circus Big Top gateway is placed downstage, at an angle in front of either wing. The focus is on Dadaji and Archana who are standing on the raised subway. Light slowly fades in.)

Archana: What is going on, Dadaji? Who is performing? Dadaji: On one side, there’s a clown juggling seven balls! On the other side, a girl is spinning more than a dozen hula hoops around her. And above us, the swinging trapeze artist looks like a flying eagle. (Dadaji points all around him where there is no one, showing the audience that he is making it all up for his granddaughter.) Archana: Wow! Dadaji: Can you see, Archana? Archana: Yes, yes, Dadaji, I can see everything. ( Music Track 3 begins to play and, as the light fades in, clowns and acrobats cartwheel their way onto stage through the Big Top gateway and do a dance, clown style, full of circus tricks. Archana and Dadaji watch on and join in. Music fades out, dancers exit along with Dadaji and Archana .)

Scene 4 Loca tion: In front of the school followed by the royal palace scene in the subway. One narrator on left downstage and the other on right downstage. No lights on stage, only on narrators. Narrator 1: &nbsp; Archana continued doing somersaults and circus tricks all evening. Narrator 2:&nbsp; While she was hopping around all evening, Dadaji was busy preparing the next day’s plan. Dadaji: Do you know who I met today? Archana: Who did you meet? Dadaji: I met the messenger of the Grand Royal Palace. He said there is a big meeting of the kings and queens.

Archana: Where is the meeting? Dadaji: In the subway! Obviously. Archana: But how can we go? We are not kings or queens. Dadaji: We can wear these special crowns and no one will know. We can sneak into the party. Archana: I love your idea! Will you be my king, Dadaji? Dadaji: Of course I will. It is my pleasure, my beautiful princess. Archana: (Dadaji and Archana entwine their arms like &nbsp; a king and queen.) Let’s go, then! (They walk towards the Subway. Music Track 1 in the background. Lights fade out from upstage and fade in on the subway.)

Scene 5 Narrator 1: &nbsp; So Archana and Dadaji wore the crowns and walked down the stairs that led to the palace gates. Narrator 2: &nbsp;While Dadaji talked about the kings, queens and royal affairs, Archana closed her eyes and saw everything! Dadaji: The walls of this palace are golden in colour. There are jewels and diamonds everywhere.

Archana: What else can you see Dadaji? Dadaji: Oh look at the beautiful robes everyone is wearing. Can you see, Archana? Archana: Yes, yes, Dadaji, I can see everything! (Music Track 4 begins to play and as the light fades in, kings and queens glide onto stage and do a dance in ballroom dance style, in pairs, while Archana and Dadaji watch on and join in. Music fades out, dancers exit along with Dadaji and Archana.)

Set: A park bench to be placed centrestage. One narrator on left downstage and the other on right downstage.No lights on stage, only on narrators. Narrator 1: An entire week went by and Dadaji was completely out of ideas. He just could not think of any more stories for Archana. Narrator 2:&nbsp; So, he decided that it was time to go back to his morning-walk friends and ask them what to do next. (All the grandparents are exercising. They continue their exercises intermittently throughout the conversation.) Savita ji: Kaay ga! Kitti tension ghete! Choti si ladki hai na. Usko hi bolo kahaaniyaan banane ke liye. [Oh, come on... Why are you so stressed out? She's just a little girl. Why don’t you simply get her to make up stories.] Sharma ji: Sahi baat kahi Savita ji ne. Bachche bahut achchhi kahaaniyaan banaate hain. [Wonderful suggestion, Savita ji. Children are great storytellers.] Mr Iyer: So, Mr Champak, problem solved? Champaklal: Idea achchha hai. Sochke kuchchh interesting karta hoon. [The idea is fantastic. Let me think about it and do something interesting.] Pushpa ben: Chaalo faafda saathe ujviye. [Let’s celebrate with some fafda.] (Takes out a packet of fried snack and begins to distribute.) (Lights out.)

Narrator 1: So Dadaji returned home with new energy. Narrator 2: After all, the game between grandfather and granddaughter had begun. And no one wanted it to stop!

﻿ Scene 6 Location: In front of the school, and superheroes scene in the subway. One narrator on left downstage and the other on right downstage. No lights on stage, only on narrators. Narrator 1: The next day, Dadaji brought with him a bicycle helmet. Narrator 2: &nbsp; Archana had no idea what Dadaji’s plan was but she was ready for some excitement. Dadaji: I found this helmet down at the subway today. Do you know who it belongs to? Archana: How would I know, Dadaji?

Dadaji: Maybe it’s nothing. Let me just throw it away. Archana: No! No! Don’t throw it away. I… think… it… belongs to… (Hesitatingly) … Banickle! Dadaji: Banickle? Who is that? Arch ana: He is a superhero, Dadaji. He can shoot fire from his hands! Dadaji: &nbsp; Arre waah! But what do we do with this helmet? Archana: Simple! We wear the helmet, close our eyes and go down to the subway. Dadaji: And then? Archana: The superhero party will begin!

Narrator 1: And so, the plan had worked. Archana strapped on the helmet and closed her eyes, and both Dadaji and she met all the superheroes and saw all their special powers. Narrator 2: &nbsp;Archana made up the entire superhero story all by herself. Dadaji didn’t have to think of a new story every day any more! (Music Track 1 in the background. Lights fade out from downstage and fade in on the subway. When the narration ends, Music Track 5 begins to play. As the light fades in, superheroes enter, each showing their own moves and powers while Archana and Dadaji watch and join in. Music fades out, dancers exit along with Dadaji and Archana.)

Scene 7 Location: In front of the school, and ghosts scene in the subway. One narrator on left downstage and the other on right downstage. No lights on stage, only on the narrators. Narrator 1: Archana was so excited about all the superheroes she had made up that she spent the next day tellin g her friends all about it. When it was time to go home, she rushed to the gate. But Dadaji was not there. Narrator 2: Archana waited and waited, but her Dadaji was not to be seen. At last, from a distance, she saw Dadaji coming. He was limping, his clothes were dirty and he wasn’t wearing his glasses. Archana: What happened, Dadaji? Are you okay? Dadaji: Sorry I am late, Archana. While coming here today, there was a big pothole, I didn’t see it, I tripped and fell down. Archana: Oh no! Dadaji: I hurt my back and my glasses broke. Archana: Are you okay now, Dadaji? Dadaji: My back hurts a little, but the problem is I cannot see very well without my glasses. Maybe we should take a taxi back home?

Narrator 1:&nbsp; Just then Archana’s eyes lit up. She had a plan! Archana: No taxi, Dadaji. Can you walk? Because I have a surprise for you in the subway today. Dadaji: No time for games today, Archana. The ghosts will be there and you will get scared. Archana: No, Dadaji. I have made friends with all the ghosts and monsters. I am not scared any more. Tell me, are you okay to walk? Dadaji: Yes, but I can’t see properly. How will I take you to the subway? Archana: Today, I will take you to the subway! Are you ready, Dadaji? Hold my hand, let’s go! ( This time Dadaji is squinting and walking as if he cannot see, while Archana holds his hand and leads him towards the subway. Music Track 1 in the background. Lights fade out from downstage and fade in on the subway.)

Narrator 1:&nbsp; So Archana gathered all her courage, caught Dadaji’s hand and carefully took him down into the subway. Narrator 2:&nbsp; She described all the fascinating sights of monsters and ghosts she saw in the subway. Dadaji: What is happening, Archana? I can’t see anything! Archana: Dadaji, the ghosts are doing a ghost dance. Some are very big and some are very small. They don’t have any colour and you can only see them in the dark! Dadaji: Wow! What else is there? Archana: Then there are monsters who have strange faces with big eyes and big mouths. Can you see, Dadaji?

Dadaji (with eyes closed) : Yes, yes, Archana, I can see EVERYTHING!

(Music Track 6 begins to play and as the light fades in, a strange shadow dance begins with growing and reducing shadows, giving the effect of a ghost dance. Archana and Dadaji watch on and sway along. Music fades out, dancers exit along with Dadaji and Archana. Both narrators come downstage and centrestage.)

Narrator 1: &nbsp; Archana carefully took Dadaji home that day, and everyone knew that Archana was not afraid of the subway any more. But this did not stop Dadaji or Archana from making their walks magical. Narrator 2: So, if you ever see a little girl or boy, twirling around on the street, or flying around like a superhero, you know what story they are cooking up and with WHOM! Surely, with their favourite grandma or grandpa! ( Music Track 7 begins to play. All actors come onto stage in sequence for the final curtain call. )

Music Track List: Track 1 – Pleasant instrumental track. What is most important is that it repeats in a loop and the same track is played from the start in every scene. Track 2 – The dance style here is ballet. Slow movements, dancing on the tips of their feet, flowing arms, twirls and swirls. A piano instrumental is preferred for this one. Track 3 – &nbsp;This is a circus show with clowns, acrobats and gymnasts. The music here must be fast-paced, carnival style. Track 4 – This is a ballroom style dance between the Kings and Queens. Waltz music used for Masquerade Balls can be used. The cello can be the primary instrument here. Track 5 – The dance must have LED lights, fluorescent costumes and robotic steps much like locking and popping and hip-hop style. The music should be electronic disco music. Track 6 – This is a shadow dance, where dancers dance behind a white screen with light behind them. Music can use percussion beats. Track 7 – This is the finale track that all the children can sing along as they come onto stage for their curtain call.
