---
source: StoryWeaver
level: 4
grade: 5
language: English
licence: CC-BY 4.0
story_id: 263627
title: "Tree's Company: a play"
author: "Jerry Pinto"
url: https://storyweaver.org.in/en/stories/263627-tree-s-company-a-play
---

# Tree's Company: a play

CHARACTERS Announcer Anna Munna Auntie Yash Young Arthy Uncle Lal Older Arthy Naazuk, the plant Milind, the tree Residents of the kingdom (at least six) Unnamed tree Dadaji Firoz Abbu King Zaanto Prince Awwal Prince Doosra Prince Teen Official

Two narrators step onto the stage. ANNA is a mature woman, and MUNNA is young. They begin a conversation. Spotlights on both narrators, nothing else on stage. SCENE 1 ANNA: Once upon a time there was a king. MUNNA: I would like to be a king. ANNA: Would you? MUNNA: Yes, it would be fun. ANNA: If you think about being a king, you might not say that. MUNNA: Tell the story, please? ANNA: OK. The king lived right here in this very land, but a long time ago. MUNNA: How do we know? ANNA: Because his story grew into a tree. MUNNA: Do all stories grow into trees? ANNA: Some trees become stories. Your story books are made of trees. MUNNA: You’re my best story book. ANNA: Thank you, but I’m made of trees too. MUNNA: No, you’re a human being. No? ANNA: Well, I ate lots of fruit as a child and they helped me grow. And so some of my body is made of trees. MUNNA: Will my story grow into a tree?

ANNA: If you plant ten trees through your life, the Green World will welcome you as a friend. And your story will become a tree. For our kind has had many uses for trees. For shade. For fruit. For building houses. For fire. MUNNA: Does it hurt a tree when you cut it down? ANNA: I don’t know, because I’m not a tree. But do you remember Auntie Yash? MUNNA: Auntie Yash and Uncle Lal and Arthy?

ANNOUNCER: The Story of the First Tree Set assembled as ANNA speaks her lines: A garden with lots of pots and plants. AUNTIE YASH, UNCLE LAL and ARTHY enter. AUNTIE YASH begins gardening and ARTHY bends to smell the flowers. UNCLE LAL exits. SCENE 2 ANNA: Yes. Auntie Yash and Uncle Lal and Arthy lived up in the Blue Mountains. Auntie Yash was a painter. She loved to paint nature and she loved gardening. She grew beautiful flowers and when anyone asked her what her secret was, she said, “I talk to them.” ANNA and MUNNA exit. Black out, and the stage is set for the next scene. This scene can be played in two ways. It can be a potted plant, or a child playing a potted plant. If the latter, the child will hold a flower that is hidden. If it is a potted plant, a flower will have to be hidden and then released, perhaps using a spring mechanism.

SCENE 3 AUNTIE YASH: Oh, you sweet thing. I’m going to call you Naazuk. How about a nice little flower tomorrow? ARTHY: Oh, Ma, come on... AUNTIE YASH: What’s wrong with you? ARTHY: That plant can’t hear you speak. AUNTIE YASH: Naazuk hears every word I say. ARTHY is looking at the pot carefully. She moves a leaf up and down and stares at the stem. AUNTIE YASH: What is it? ARTHY: I’m trying to find this geranium’s ears. Hee hee hee. AUNTIE YASH: Poor Naazuk, don’t feel bad. ARTHY and AUNTIE YASH exit. The plant produces a flower. Gentle music begins to play, and continues till the end of Scene 8.

ANNA and MUNNA return. ANNA: One day Uncle Lal brought home two fine casuarina saplings. They were to be planted in the garden. SCENE 4 ARTHY and AUNTIE YASH in a garden. UNCLE LAL walks in carrying two pots. ARTHY: New friends for you, Ma. Hee hee hee. AUNTIE YASH: I’m going to prove that they hear me. Just you see. Both exit. There is a dim spotlight on each plant. As the scenes progress, the spotlight on the plant called Milind gets brighter. ANNA: And so, every day, she went out into the garden and she talked to one of the casuarinas but not the other.

SCENE 5 AUNTIE YASH enters. Add an extra layer of costume like a hat/shawl/scarf each time she enters, to show the passage of time. AUNTIE YASH: Hello, Milind. She smiles at the tree and pats its trunk. AUNTIE YASH: Bye-bye, Milind. AUNTIE YASH exits. SCENE 6 AUNTIE YASH enters. AUNTIE YASH: Lovely weather, Milind. AUNTIE YASH exits. SCENE 7 It is raining. AUNTIE YASH enters. AUNTIE YASH: Have a good drink of water, Milya. We see Milind growing tall and hefty and the other tree remaining small and weedy. These are two children, both playing casuarinas. One will have lots of branches and will keep on picking them up each time he is addressed and the other will have a couple of branches and stay that way. Arthy comes in on the last time with Aunty Yash. This Arthy can be played by a slightly older child because trees do need some time to grow.

AUNTIE YASH: See, Arthy? OLDER ARTHY: You win, Ma. AUNTIE YASH: A little kindness always helps. Even with a tree. AUNTIE YASH and OLDER ARTHY exit.

SCENE 8 ANNA: Do you remember my brother, Firozbhai? MUNNA: You have a brother? I thought you were an only child. ANNA: I was my parents’ only child but I found many brothers and sisters across the world. MUNNA: Oh, like that. ANNA: You remember when we went to Rampur? MUNNA: Aaaah! Firoz Kaka? ANNA: Yes. Do you remember the mango tree?

MUNNA: Yes, I remember playing hide-and-seek in its branches. ANNA: Just as I played with Firozbhai in that same tree when I was a girl. MUNNA: Wow! I can’t imagine you in a tree. ANNA: Can’t you?

Setting: External garden with trees. Stage settings can be arranged as ANNA speaks her lines. The setting includes a dining room set, which is not lit up yet. DADAJI and FIROZ enter stage. ANNOUNCER: The Story of the Second Tree SCENE 9 ANNA: Anyway, Firozbhai loved that tree. It was his Aam Mama. But there was a time when the mango tree had not borne fruit for many years. And so Firoz’s Dadaji called him. ANNA and MUNNA exit. DADAJI: Beta, are you a good actor? FIROZ: You should have seen me in the school play last year! FIROZ performs the nava rasas in a highly exaggerated fashion. FIROZ: This is shringara, this is hasya, this is karuna, this is raudra, this is veera, this is bhayanaka, this is bheebatsya, this is adbhuta and this is shanta.* * Shringara is love, hasya is laughter, karuna is compassion, raudra is anger, veera is courage, bhayanaka is fear, bheebatsya is disgust, adbhuta is wonder and shanta is peace.

DADAJI: Subhanallah! Now, you have to act well today or your father will turn Aam Mama into a writing desk. FIROZ: What? DADAJI: Yes, he was saying that he wanted a new desk for his office. But wood is expensive so he said he would cut down Aam Mama to make the desk. FIROZ: Never!

DADAJI: I agree. So here’s what we’ll do. (He whispers into FIROZ’s ear. FIROZ nods excitedly.) SCENE 10 Lights on the dining room set on stage. At dinner, FIROZ wants to say something to Abbu but DADAJI puts his finger to his lips. Then he winks. SCENE 11 The stage is in darkness except for a dim white light on the tree. We see the moon rise and get stuck in the branches of the old mango tree. Two figures emerge from the house: DADAJI and FIROZ. DADAJI is carrying an axe in his hands. DADAJI: Tomorrow, we have to cut down Aam Mama! FIROZ: No, no! DADAJI: Yes, yes! FIROZ: Haai, haai! Why? Why? DADAJI: Well, we haven’t had any fruit, and your Papa needs a new desk. FIROZ: No, no. This year Aam Mama will give lots of fruit. So much that we will be able to sell it and buy Papa a new desk. DADAJI: But beta... FIROZ: No, I promise. And Aam Mama promises too. No , Aam Mama? A breeze stirs Aam Mama’s branches and it seems as if Aam Mama is nodding. Lights fade out.

SCENE 12 Yellow flowers are sprinkled on the tree. ANNOUNCER: February. DADAJI: Look beta, mor! FIROZ: A peacock? Where? DADAJI: The flowers on the mango tree, we call them mor. FIROZ: They do look like yellow peacocks. Lights fade out. SCENE 13 The yellow flowers on the tree are replaced by green mango bulbs. ANNOUNCER: March. FIROZ: Dadaji, look. There are small green bulbs of mangoes on Aam Mama. DADAJI: Shhh. Aam Mama must hold on to these firmly. FIROZ: Hold firmly, Aam Mama! Lights fade out.

SCENE 14 The tree now has full-grown yellow mangoes all over it. A verandah has been added with tables and chairs on it. Everyone’s eating mangoes and there are boxes of the fruit in the verandah. We are at dinner again. ANNOUNCER: May. FIROZ: How much does a new desk cost, Abbu? ABBU: Who wants a new desk? FIROZ: You! ABBU: Me? What’s wrong with my old desk? FIROZ: But Dadaji said...

DADAJI cuts a slice of mango and shoves it into FIROZ’s mouth. ABBU starts laughing. ABBU: He told you we were going to cut down your mango tree? FIROZ: He said you needed a new desk. ABBU: He told me we needed new chairs when I was little. DADAJI: I had to get you to do your best acting, so I told you that story. And together we told Aam Mama a story. DADAJI covers his face pretending to be ashamed, and FIROZ does his nava rasas. They exit, and ANNA and MUNNA return.

SCENE 15 As ANNA and MUNNA speak, the old set is removed and the set for the third story is brought on to the stage. ANNA: As I was saying, “There was once a king...” MUNNA: I don’t want to hear about kings. Tell me about a tree. ANNA: I was telling you about a king whose story grew into a tree. MUNNA: Say like that!

ANNOUNCER: The Story of the Third Tree ANNA: Once upon a time there was an old king. He was tired and he wanted to stop being king. MUNNA: Why? ANNA: It’s a lot of work. Anyway, let him tell it in his own words.

SCENE 16 ANNA and MUNNA exit. Enter KING ZAANTO and the three princes. KING ZAANTO: I have decided that I will no longer rule. I am going away to the mountains and I will live a simple life there. PRINCE AWWAL: I am the eldest, so I should be king, right? PRINCE DOOSRA: No such luck, Awwal. The law says: The Best Prince must become King. PRINCE TEEN: I think we should let Dad choose. KING ZAANTO: Here’s the test I thought I would put to you. I would like to be remembered when I am no longer king. How will you do this? PRINCE AWWAL: I will make a law. I will say: The Good King Zaanto must be remembered. And there will be a certain time, every day, when people will have to think of you.

SCENE 17 OFFICIAL enters carrying a trumpet. He blows the trumpet. OFFICIAL: It is time to think about King Zaanto. Various children come on to the stage, each carrying a thought bubble. They speak the line and hold up the thought bubble to indicate what they are thinking. The announcer speaks the lines on the thought bubble. WOMAN: Oh yes, I remember King Zaanto. (THOUGHT BUBBLE/ANNOUNCER: Where did that gold earring go?) MAN: Oh yes, Good King Zaanto. (THOUGHT BUBBLE/ANNOUNCER: I should buy a goat.)

CHILD: Yes, King Manto. (THOUGHT BUBBLE/ANNOUNCER: What kind of sweets will I get for my birthday?) WOMAN: Poor King Zaanto. What a good man! (THOUGHT BUBBLE/ANNOUNCER: This is so stupid.) OLD MAN: Ah such a fine king he was! (THOUGHT BUBBLE/ANNOUNCER: My elbow hurts.) OLD WOMAN: May blessings fall upon King Zaanto! (THOUGHT BUBBLE/ANNOUNCER: What a foolish law this is.) Lights fade out. Everyone exits.

SCENE 18 Enter KING ZAANTO and the three princes. PRINCE DOOSRA: I will have a fine statue set up of you. Someone brings in a pedestal. The KING climbs on to it and stands there. He puts out a hand in a formal gesture. Enter a MAN and a WOMAN. MAN: That’s a good idea. I shall do one for my father, too. He brings in a pedestal. His father climbs on to it and points into the distance. WOMAN: I think I should do this for my mother. She rolls in a pedestal. Her mother climbs on to it and points at the KING. This may be repeated as many times as possible with the children available. At the end, the statue of the KING must no longer be visible. Lights fade out. Everyone exits.

SCENE 19 PRINCE TEEN: I will plant a tree for you. He opens his hand and there is a small seed on it. He puts it into the ground. He mimes pouring water on to it. He watches it grow. He digs around the roots. He sweeps around it. If there are children who are gymnastically inclined, they can act out a growing tree. If not the tree can simply be ‘built’ out of paper and wood and brought on stage. The PRINCES and the KING freeze. ANNA and MUNNA return. ANNA: Who do you think should be king? MUNNA: Let’s ask the audience. ANNA (turning to the audience): Who do you think should be king? Get everyone to shout out the answers.

ANNA: Yes, indeed, it was Prince Teen who became king. And when the third son grew old, he came every day and sat under the tree. And he listened to birdsong and the murmur of the breeze in the branches. He felt safe here, the way he had felt when he was a baby and his father had picked him up and held him. And everywhere, across the land, children began to plant trees for their parents. Their land grew green, and a green land is a prosperous land. PRINCE TEEN sitting under the tree and looking up. Everyone else on stage remains frozen.

SCENE 20 Setting: Back to just ANNA and MUNNA on stage. MUNNA: I want to plant a tree for you. So I will remember you when you are gone. ANNA: I would love that. MUNNA: Can we do it on your birthday? ANNA: Why wait that long? Here’s a tamarind seed. And outside, the earth is waiting and the rain is going to come...

All the characters come on stage to sing. Go, plant a tree. Choose a local kind. The birds will thank you For keeping them in mind. Go, plant a tree. Water it every day. Dig around the roots, They can breathe that way. Go, plant a tree. Not just for wood. Go, plant a tree, Do the world some good. Go, plant a tree For aesthetic pleasure. You’ll get clean air, Oxygen for good measure. Go, plant a tree. One day it’ll give you shade. Have you planted a tree? What a difference you’ve made!
