---
source: StoryWeaver
level: 4
grade: 5
language: English
licence: CC-BY 4.0
story_id: 657626
title: "One Earth: Planetary Health for All"
author: "Abhishek Kumar , Andrea Sylvia Winkler, Bernadette  Kumar, Josianne Kollmann, Madhvi Nandlal Joshi, Meenal  Shrivastava, Niels Verhulst, Nirwan, Sanjiv  Shrivastava, Sofia  de Angelis, Terence  Odoch , Zahara  Nampewo"
url: https://storyweaver.org.in/en/stories/657626-one-earth-planetary-health-for-all
---

# One Earth: Planetary Health for All

We live on one planet, one Earth. We all want to live happily in our home. For that, we need to think&nbsp; about planetary health. Illustration by Bhargavi Rudraraju A group of scientists tells us what that means!

Planetary health is the well-being of everything—not only humans, but also animals and the environment in which we live. Illustration by Habib Ali

Planetary health is also being respectful of different cultures and ways of living. It is about living together as a part of planet Earth. Illustration by Japani Shyam

Our Earth is sick. It is facing a lot of health challenges. Just as, when we inhale dust, we start coughing, the Earth is also coughing and feeling heartache and pain, because of all the dirt humans create, the industries that pollute the air and water. Illustration by Lorena Gasser

There’s a lot of doom and gloom&nbsp; that we hear about. But there’s a lot of hope. If humanity, works together, yes, there’s a lot to look forward to. Illustration by Joanna Mendes

Small actions can have a big impact on the environment. Illustration by Milena Stuck

We have to bring together all the knowledge&nbsp; of planetary health. And collaborate— within communities an d across governments. Illustration by Paul John Ochare

What we need to do to make a better, more liveable world, is to think about how we define development. It shouldn’t be just about more buildings and more industries. It should also be about well-being. And whose well-being? It can be the people—you, your family, your neighbours and their neighbours. It’s an ever-widening circle of well-being. Illustration by Sunaina Coelho

But it’s also the animals, the plants, the air and all the beings that make up the world that we live in. So, it’s about everyone. Illustration by Kanak Shashi

When we begin to think about development in this way, we will also think about the economy in a different way. So perhaps, what we need to do to make this a better, more liveable world, is to think about how we define development. And then act on that, working towards an alternate model of development. Illustration by Mohith O

Once a community comes together and tries to protect its environment, it will be the starting point for better planetary health. Illustration by Deogratius Okudi

In December 2024, about 70 scientists, doctors and researchers, with other experts from India, Uganda and Switzerland, met at the Trialogue Days: Planetary Health from Different Perspectives – Mind the Gap. They met to reflect on the question of, and the meaning of planetary health, and then to discuss how their work and knowledge is connected to it and what they could learn from each other to find better solutions to Earth’s problems. Planetary health is not only a topic for scientists, researchers, doctors and other experts. It is connected to everyone’s everyday life. H ence, we wanted to know from the public what planetary health is to them. That is where the idea for this book came from. Before the event, we collected questions and presented them to researchers during the meeting. The answers were then compiled and edited for this book. The goal was to bridge the gap between scientific research on planetary health and public understanding, making complex scientific topics accessible to a broad audience. With an eye towards the future, the project aimed to create an inclusive and lasting community around the topic of planetary health. What Is Planetary Health?

Abhishek Kumar is an MSc student in applied microbiology at Banaras Hindu University, with a BSc in microbiology from the University of Delhi. Abhishek aims to develop eco-friendly solutions for environmental pollution. He is committed to advancing research that promotes both human development and environmental sustainability, in line with the principles of planetary health. Prof. Andrea Sylvia Winkler is a specialist neurologist at the Department of Neurology and co-director of the Center for Global Health at the Technical University of Munich. She has been engaged in global health and One Health for 25 years. Prof. Bernadette Kumar is a medical doctor (SJMC India) with a doctorate in epidemiology and public health and a post-doctorate from the University of Oslo. With over 30 years of experience in Global Health, she has worked with UNICEF, WHO, WFP, the World Bank and NORAD across regions, including southern Sudan, Somalia, northwest Kenya, the West Bank and Gaza, North Korea, China and Bhutan. Authors

Dr Josianne Kollmann is a health and environmental psychologist and works as a scientist at the Swiss Federal Institute of Aquatic Science and Technology. She holds a PhD in health psychology from the University of Konstanz, Germany. In her research, Josianne investigates how human perceptions and behaviours can contribute to protecting and improving planetary health. Dr Madhvi Nandlal Joshi is joint director of the Gujarat Biotechnology Research Centre (GBRC) and an accomplished researcher with expertise in genomics, microbial diversity, environmental surveillance and One Health. She has led multiple high-impact research projects funded by national and international agencies. Her work utilises advanced genomics and multi-omics approaches, contributing to the development of innovative technologies and diagnostics. &nbsp; Prof. Meenal Shrivastava was born in Jaipur and taught for nearly a decade in South Africa. She now lives and works as an uninvited immigrant settler in the ancestral home of the Wsáneć Peoples in the unceded Coast Salish Territories (also known as Victoria, BC).

Prof. Niels Verhuls leads the vector ecology group within the Institute for Parasitology at the University of Zurich. As a chemical ecologist, he studies the behaviour of vectors for various pathogens with the aim of developing new vector control tools. Nirwan , a Bachelor of Planning graduate of the School of Planning and Architecture (SPA), Vijayawada, is passionate about addressing climate-related challenges. With a master’s degree in remote sensing and GIS from the Indian Institute of Remote Sensing-Indian Space Research Organisation (IIRS-ISRO), he is equipped to solve complex spatial problems. He currently focuses on Geographic Information Systems (GIS) data management for land acquisition at the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI). Dr Sanjiv Shrivastava &nbsp;is a dedicated advocate for compassion and global kinship, with a commitment to addressing privilege and biases, and fostering understanding across communities. Having grown up in Kenya, Zambia, India and South Africa, his diverse background has shaped his approach to community-building and cultural awareness.

Dr Zahara Nampewo is a Ugandan lawyer, academic and human rights practitioner. She teaches law at the School of Law Makerere University in Uganda, where she is also the deputy principal. Her areas of interest include human rights, gender and health justice. Zahara was winner of the 2019 5th Women in Law Award for ‘Female Lawyer Academic’, awarded by the Uganda Law Society in 2019. Dr Terence Odoch is a lecturer and veterinary epidemiologist at the College of Veterinary Medicine, Animal Resources and Biosecurity at Makerere University, Uganda. He holds a PhD from the Norwegian University of Life Sciences. His work addresses critical issues in disease control, food safety and antimicrobial resistance, with a focus on improving public health outcomes in Uganda and beyond. Sofia de Angelis is a Swiss-Italian graduate in social sciences from the University of Zurich, specialising in social anthropology and sinology. She plans to further her academic journey in sustainable development, believing that an anthropological perspective is essential for addressing global challenges.

Bhargavi Rudraraju is an illustrator from Hyderabad, India. She started making illustrations professionally in 2015, after leaving her full-time job in the social development sector and moving to Timor-Leste. She mostly makes children's book illustrations and editorial illustrations. Deogratius Okudi from Kampala, Uganda, is a conceptual artist, graphic designer and illustrator. He studied art at Makerere University in Uganda. As a child he once drew a portrait of the president of his country. It was so perfect that his older siblings were in disbelief. He has drawn ever since. His works range from conceptual work, comics and community-sensitising illustrations and graphic designs. Habib Ali trained at the Riyaaz Academy in Bhopal while doing a BFA from the Government Institute of Fine Arts, Gwalior. He lives in Gwalior and loves capturing the day-to-day life of its residents with his camera. He has worked with publishers like Duckbill, Tulika Books and Room to Read, and also with organisations like Child Fund, NCERT, Children, Eklavya, Ektara and the Language and Learning Foundation, among others. Illustrators

Japani Shyam is a janghar kalam painter based in Bhopal. Japani’s experimental work reflects the stories of the forest. Her works have been displayed in exhibitions and at galleries across India. Joanna Mendes is an illustrator and graphic designer. She loves experimenting with visual styles and combines traditional and digital techniques to create her illustrations. Joanna is an alumna of the Savannah College of Art and Design. In her spare time, she loves to draw from life, people-watch, and sing. Kanak Shashi holds a master’s in painting and began her career as an illustrator. She has been designing and writing children’s books for over a decade. Kanak believes that an illustration for a book is not merely a visual interpretation of the text, but a creative process where images and content are intricately woven together to communicate the story in a unique and engaging way.

Lorena Gasser is a freelance illustrator based in Switzerland. She studied Illustration Nonfiction at the Lucerne School of Design, Film and Art. In her free time, she enjoys being outdoors in the mountains or on stage as an improv actress. Milena Stuck is a Swiss illustrator with a BA in design from the Zurich University of the Arts. She works as a designer for Swissnex in Bengaluru, drawing inspiration from the vibrant cultural environment around her. She enjoys painting in her free time. Mohith O is an architect-turned-illustrator. He loves dogs, iced teas and sleeping. His portfolio includes film title animations, book covers, editorial illustrations and comics. When not on a project, he’s often sketching in a corner of Kochi.

Paul John Ochare is an artist/illustrator with a bachelor’s degree from Magaret Trowell School of Industrial and Fine Arts, Makerere University. With over a decade of experience in the industry, he has worked with both local and international organisations. He is passionate with a keen eye for detail. Sunaina Coelho is a designer and she loves to draw. She was born in New Delhi, studied at the National Institute of Design, Ahmedabad, and currently lives in Bangalore with her family.
